---
title: How to Compile Aseprite for MacOS
description: For Intel Macs only.
date: 2024-05-22
tags:
  - aseprite
  - dev
---
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF ASEPRITE

## 1. Install Homebrew and Xcode Command Line

I prefer to do most of these steps with the command line. To open the command line, press CMD + Spacebar on your keyboard, type Terminal, and hit enter. You'll probably be in your $HOME directory already, and that's where we'll be installing Aseprite. If you'd like to and know how to change where Aseprite will be located on your computer, feel free!

For the dependencies we need, I recommend using Homebrew, which is a package manager that makes installing software on MacOS easy. To check if you have Homebrew installed, paste/type this into your Terminal, and hit enter:
```diff-terminal
brew -v
```
This checks Homebrew's version. If you get a message back that says "Homebrew 4.x.x" or any other version number, you have Homebrew installed already. If not, paste this into your Terminal, and hit enter:
```diff-terminal
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```
When it asks for your password, type in your password (it won't show your password as you type), and press enter. And then press enter again to start installing.

This will also install Command Line Tools for you, which we need.

## 2. Grab Source Code

To get the source code for Aseprite, we'll clone it to use on our local system using git.

### Clone Aseprite Github

In your Terminal, put in this command, and hit enter:
```diff-terminal
git clone --recursive https://github.com/aseprite/aseprite.git
```
After it's done, you can check the for the aseprite folder Finder. It should be in your Home folder, which is usually uses the house symbol next to your name/computer's name.

## 2. Install Dependencies

Now, we need to install the dependencies required to compile Aseprite.

### a. Install XCode

To check if your system has Xcode installed, type this in your Terminal, and hit enter:
```diff-terminal
xcode-select --install
```
If Xcode is already installed, you'll see this message:
```diff-terminal
xcode-select: error: command line tools are already installed, use "Software Update" in System Settings to install updates
```
Great! You can skip to "b. Install CMake". Otherwise, you'll see a pop-up that asks you to install Xcode. Click Install.

After installation, to check if Xcode was installed, use this and enter:
```diff-terminal
xcode-select -p
```
If you see the following message, congrats! You've installed Xcode.
```diff-terminal
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools
```
### b. Install CMake

Since we've already installed Homebrew, we can go ahead and paste this into the Terminal and hit enter:
```diff-terminal
brew install cmake
```

### c. Install Ninja

To install Ninja, use this and press enter:
```diff-terminal
brew install ninja
```

### d. Compile Skia

This is the last dependency, and I like to compile it myself, instead of using a pre-built package, just in case. In your Terminal, enter:
```diff-terminal
mkdir $HOME/deps
```

Then:
```diff-terminal
cd $HOME/deps
```
(The `cd` command means "change directory".)

Clone depot tools into your deps folder:
```diff-terminal
git clone https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/tools/depot_tools.git
```

And then clone Skia-m102, which is the latest Skia release at the time of writing:
```diff-terminal
git clone -b aseprite-m102 https://github.com/aseprite/skia.git
```

Then paste this and enter:
```diff-terminal
export PATH="${PWD}/depot_tools:${PATH}"
```

Move into the skia folder using this command:
```diff-terminal
cd skia
```

Before you paste and the next one in your Terminal, we'll need to check which version of Python we have. Open a new Terminal window with Cmd + N, and run these commands, one line at a time:
```diff-terminal
python --version
python3  --version
```
Depending on which python version you have, you'll get back "Python x.x.x" or "command not found: python(3)". 

Go back to your other Terminal window where your last command was `cd skia`, and use the python command below that gives you a version number, not "command not found", and hit enter. For me, I need to use python3. (Copy the line that starts with "python" or "python3", not the lines that start with "//")
```diff-terminal
// for Python, use this:
python tools/git-sync-deps

// for Python3, use this:
python3 tools/git-sync-deps
```

If you have an Intel Mac, paste in this code one line at a time, and press enter after each line:
```diff-terminal
gn gen out/Release-x64 --args="is_debug=false is_official_build=true skia_use_system_expat=false skia_use_system_icu=false skia_use_system_libjpeg_turbo=false skia_use_system_libpng=false skia_use_system_libwebp=false skia_use_system_zlib=false skia_use_sfntly=false skia_use_freetype=true skia_use_harfbuzz=true skia_pdf_subset_harfbuzz=true skia_use_system_freetype2=false skia_use_system_harfbuzz=false target_cpu=\"x64\" extra_cflags=[\"-stdlib=libc++\", \"-mmacosx-version-min=10.9\"] extra_cflags_cc=[\"-frtti\"]"
ninja -C out/Release-x64 skia modules
```

If you have an Apple Silicon (M1/M2/etc) Mac, paste in this code one line at a time, and press enter after each line:
```diff-terminal
gn gen out/Release-arm64 --args="is_debug=false is_official_build=true skia_use_system_expat=false skia_use_system_icu=false skia_use_system_libjpeg_turbo=false skia_use_system_libpng=false skia_use_system_libwebp=false skia_use_system_zlib=false skia_use_sfntly=false skia_use_freetype=true skia_use_harfbuzz=true skia_pdf_subset_harfbuzz=true skia_use_system_freetype2=false skia_use_system_harfbuzz=false target_cpu=\"arm64\" extra_cflags=[\"-stdlib=libc++\", \"-mmacosx-version-min=11.0\"] extra_cflags_cc=[\"-frtti\"]"
ninja -C out/Release-arm64 skia modules
```
If you're not sure which type of Mac you have, click on the the Apple icon on the top toolbar, and click "About This Mac". If it says "Processor" and "Intel", you have an Intel Mac. If it says "Chip" and "Apple M(1/2/etc)", you have an Apple Silicon Mac.

Wait until the Terminal finishes processing, and you've compiled Skia!

## 3. Compile

Now in your Terminal, enter this:
```diff-terminal
cd $HOME/aseprite
```

We need to make a new directory (aka folder) within this aseprite directory called "build". We can do that on the command line with this:
```diff-terminal
mkdir build
```
The command `mkdir` is short for "make directory" and takes the name of the new directory as a paramenter (in our case: "build").

Next, we need to move into our new "build" directory:
```diff-terminal
cd build
```

Then, we run cmake with some parameters, and then ninja:

#### For Intel Macs
Copy and paste the code below one line at a time, hitting enter after every line. When you get to the third cmake paramenter (DCMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=X.X.X), change `X.X.X` to your MacOS version. 

You can check your MacOS by doing the same steps to find if you're Mac is Intel or Apple Silicon: Apple symbol -> About This Mac -> macOS. 

Don't forget the backslash after each parameter line.
```diff-terminal
cmake \
  -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo \
  -DCMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES=x86_64 \
  -DCMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=X.X.X \
  -DCMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT=/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk \
  -DLAF_BACKEND=skia \
  -DSKIA_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia \
  -DSKIA_LIBRARY_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-x64 \
  -DSKIA_LIBRARY=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-x64/libskia.a \
  -G Ninja \
  ..
```
Wait for Terminal to finish writing the build files, and then enter this:
```diff-terminal
ninja aseprite
```

#### For Apple Silicon Macs
Copy and paste the code below one line at a time, hitting enter after every line. When you get to the third cmake paramenter (DCMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=X.X.X), change `X.X.X` to your MacOS version. 

You can check your MacOS by doing the same steps to find if you're Mac is Intel or Apple Silicon: Apple symbol -> About This Mac -> macOS. 

Don't forget the backslash after each parameter line.

NOTE: While this code is from the official github of Aseprite, I ran into an error while writing these files on my M1. Be sure that `DCMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT` points to the correct SDK directory. You can find the path on your Mac with:
```diff-terminal
xcrun --sdk macosx --show-sdk-path
```
The output will be the path you use after `DCMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT=`. Don't forget the backslash at the end of the line.
```diff-terminal
cmake \
  -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo \
  -DCMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES=arm64 \
  -DCMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=X.X.X \
  -DCMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT=/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk \
  -DLAF_BACKEND=skia \
  -DSKIA_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia \
  -DSKIA_LIBRARY_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-arm64 \
  -DSKIA_LIBRARY=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-arm64/libskia.a \
  -DPNG_ARM_NEON:STRING=on \
  -G Ninja \
  ..
```
Wait for Terminal to finish writing the build files, and then enter this:
```diff-terminal
ninja aseprite
```

Tada! And now we have an executable file built by ninja in our build directory. Congratulations! You've compiled aseprite!

## 4. Run Aseprite

To open our new Aseprite software, open Finder on your Mac. Press Cmd+Shift+H on your keyboard to go to your Home folder. Go to aseprite -> build -> bin. There should be a file called aseprite that's a Unix Executable File. That's our aseprite program! Double-click to open aseprite!

If you want to change the icon of aseprite from a Terminal icon to the actual aseprite icon, search "aseprite logo" in Google, and click on the image from Wikipedia.

In Finder, right-click aseprite and click "Get Info". Now drag the image from Wikipedia/Google to the small image on the top left of the "aseprite Info" window. Now you have aseprite with the correct logo!

You can also drag aseprite to your Dock for quick access.
